# paint
  When using a program, oftentimes the need to draw a simple drawing on the computer arises. Sometimes, we want to create a simple drawing or sketch to explain a concept to someone that may not understand it with just words. One can also want to use a simple painting program so that they can conserve paper and drawing supplies or when they are unavailable. Having a drawing on a digital medium also makes it easier to preserve and can be sent online to others. Someone may also just want to mindlessly doodle to for fun or to pass the time. Word processing documents usually do not have many art utilities such as drawing lines and curves so an alternate solution must be sought after. Many art programs are very complex and have a steep learning curve, making them hard and somewhat unfeasible to use for many people looking to just create a simple drawing. Due to the complicated nature of these programs, many people may become intimidated and drift away from digital art as a result. A gateway program is needed to get people into digital art. Such a program would need to be able to perform a variety of functions, such as drawing freehand lines and painting in different colors, but also be easy enough to use that most computer users could pick up on the program and use it proficiently almost instantaneously. A simple paint program being made would address the problems listed above.
 
  I decided to make a paint application because having a paint application on the computer is very useful for drawing simple images. These simple images can be shown to other people around the computer easily, or screenshotted for online sharing. Creating digital artwork for simple drawings can also save paper and drawing supplies that would have otherwise been expended. Oftentimes, a user will want to be able to make a drawing from scratch in an easy, intuitive manner. By simply holding the mouse down, lines are drawn under the mouse cursor. Curves are drawn and follow the path of the mouse accordingly. Colors are exchanged by clicking the color panel on the side. The thickness of the line is adjusted with a drop down menu. Actions can be undone and redone by clicking the undo and redo buttons. The board can be cleared by pressing the clear button. The program can be closed by clicking the “X” button. By having a clean, clutter free GUI visibly split into the selection components and the drawing board, the program will be very intuitive and easy for beginners to use. It will be a great application for those looking to get their very first experiences with digital art. The program is also great for those just seeking to draw for fun or to pass time on the computer. The goal of the program is to be easy to use and very simple to learn and pick up, and by creating a basic, intuitive paint application, I will accomplish these goals.
